---
mod: 20
title: Pinboard - A Clone of the Famous Pinterest
featured: false
category: programming
published: true
date: 2016-08-25
excerpt_separator: <!-- excerpt -->
tags:
  - Rails
  - Ruby
  - Web Development
---

This is a Pinterest-like application where users are able to post images and others are able to vote.
<!-- excerpt -->

Even though I had already learned how to implement a picture uploader by googling and using Carrierwave gem when creating Rails blogs, I wanted to see how Mackenzie Child implemented picture uploader. I learned he used Paperclip gem, which is simpler than Carrierwave and perfect for this project as the pictures didn't require as much customization. I also learned how to use masonry-rails gem, which is a helpful gem to apply transitions and other jquery functions throughout the application.

In doing this project, I finally started to see that there are common patterns in creating apps: from the planning stage to feature implementation and MVC development. Realizing that, has helped me to better organize my thoughts when working on new apps. It is also easier now for me to find solutions for issues that arise when working on an applicaiton. Plus, the tutorial has helped me to know which questions to even ask when searching for answers on Stack Overflow and other forums.

### Adding Features

1. Create a git branch with the name of that feature
2. Add the gem or generate any models needed for the feature
3. Read the documentation of the gem and/or update the database
4. Generate any controllers needed
5. Add your URLs
6. Fill in your models
7. Fill in your controllers and views
8. Finish the feature, save, and merge with master branch
9. Think of new feature and start from step 1 again

From watching this tutorial and comparing it to what I knew prior, I've come to realize that I am on a search for learning best practices in Rails.

For github repo:
<https://github.com/bruno78/12-apps-03-pinboard>

The Mackenzie Child tutorial video:

[Pinboard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=abcnfFS_DS8&list=PL23ZvcdS3XPLNdRYB_QyomQsShx59tpc-&index=4)
