---
layout: post
title: What's Out There
blurb: Emerging technologies that will make us re-think the web.
date: 2016-10-05
published: false
tags:
 - Offline first
 - Decentralized Internet
 - Meetups
---

These are new technologies and applications that I've seen in meetups

### Offline-First Apps

How many times you tried to open an app with poor or no internet connection and the first thing you get is this error message: "No internet connection"? It's over, you can't use it until you get a network signal. Well, Offline-First came to solve this problem. The idea here is to create apps that still work even when you are in places where there's poor or no connectivity. It doesn't do anything miraculously, it just stores the right necessary amount of data that lets your app work under critical circumstances. That said, if you are on a plane with no Internet connection and decide to open your Offline-First weather app, it will work but will you give you the temperature of the last time it synchronized with the internet network. As soon as you are back to a place with connection, it will update without you have to do anything. All it is, is not giving you a "no connection error" and keep your app running with basic amount of data.

It uses a JavaScript database named PouchDB which is a trunked down version of Apache's CouchDB (which you can also use) and it runs within your browser/app. The advantage of these apps are:
1. It's actually faster since all the CRUD operations happens within your app.
2. It supposedly takes less battery and bandwidth because data is synchronized periodically/in batches instead of constantly.
3. The main and foremost: it works offline.

Offline-first apps are good for:

* Frontend Web apps
* Backend Web apps
* Mobile apps
* Desktop apps
* Internet of Things (IoT)

More info:

<https://youtu.be/7L7esHWAjSU>

Give it a shot using Hoodie a nice frontend framework:

<http://hood.ie/>

or if you are looking for something more lightweight as in a library, Up Up is your solution:

<https://www.talater.com/upup/>


### Server-less Framework

> Build applications comprised of microservices that run in response to events, auto-scale for you, and only charge you when they run. This lowers the total cost of maintaining your apps, enabling you to build more logic, faster.

They are made to run on AWS Lambda but they are expanding to support other cloud providers.

<https://serverless.com/>

### GitBook

More and more I see people using Gitbook to write O'Reily edition type books, tutorials, classes, companies' Wikies and documentation of their data.

### WorkWorkJS

> A library that speeds up computation-heavy tasks in JavaScript with multi-threading and Web Workers.

When you have heavy computations, Workwork.js supplements Array.prototype's map and filter and performs them on a separate thread using promise

Demo:

<https://workworkjs.github.io/workworkjs>

github repo:

<https://github.com/workworkjs/workworkjs>

They are all exciting and I'm looking forward to try them and see how they work in practice.
